Welcome back.
It's time to now check your performance on the function tasks by going over the solution.
Let's go to the Jupiter notebook and see how you did.
All right.
Let's begin by taking a look at the first task.
It was creative function takes in two integers and returns a boolean if there is some is 10.
So true if there's some 10 and faucets or some or something else.
Now as you're beginning to code you may have to do this.
Could have said if and one plus and two is equal to 10 return TRUE else return false.
That's a perfectly ok way to do this.
You notice you get the same results if you run the code.
However remember that if you're just checking an if statement and you're only going to return the same
boolean value.
All you really need to do is just return this boolean value itself.
So you could just write return the results of this comparison operation.
And that's the exact same thing to notice you get the same result there.
So all we're doing here is checking into some is equal to 10 task number two was create a function that
takes in 200 integers returns true to some extent.
Otherwise returns the actual some value.
Let's go ahead and see how we could do this now.
In this case we will need the if statement will say if and 1 plus and 2 is equal to 10 return TRUE else
we're going to return the actual sum and one plus and two.
And then when we run this we'll get back the same results.
Task 3 was create a function it takes in a string and returns back the first character of that string
in uppercase.
You can actually do this off one line.
We're going to do is index the first character off that string with brackets and 0 and then we're just
going to say upper to get it in upper case.
And then we will just return this result and that's all you had to do.
You could add multiple lines as well but it's actually quite simple if one line task for was to create
a function that takes in a string returns the last two characters.
If there are less than two characters return the string error.
So let's see how we would do this.
We'll use control flow to say if the length of my string is less than 2 that I will return the error
code.
Otherwise I'm going to return my string and there was a link here for hinting.
But we're going to use negative indexing for a slice.
So we will go back to space's from the end and then go all the way to the end.
And if you want more explanation about this you can click on the link for the hints.
But essentially all we're doing here is we're going from the very end of the string back to spaces and
then going all the way back to the end again.
So it's a little confusing at first.
On how to use slicing with negative indices as your starting point you can just think of it as negative
2 from the very end then go all the way to the end and we need a check to see if our length of my string
is less than 2.
Otherwise you'll get some weird results trying to get this one to run first task 5 was given a list
of integers return true of the sequence 1 2 3 is somewhere in the list.
So this one's a little trickier.
So let's go ahead and check out how we can do this.
We'll do the following.
We'll say for I in range and the range we're going to do is the length of the list of numbers.
Minus 2.
And the reason we're going to iterate with length minus two is so that we can use I plus 1 in I plus
2.
Later in the loop.
So we'll see what we mean by that.
We're going to say if Number of is equal to 1.
And so we're using logical operators here.
Numbers of I plus 1 is equal to two hands.
Numbs of I plus two is equal to three.
Then we're going to return TRUE else if we've gone through that entire four loop and we haven't returned
anything.
We'll just return false so let's go over the logic here because it's a little bit tricky at first.
So we will say for I in range length of thumbs minus 2.
So this is a way to iterate through the length of the list.
However if we did just the length of the list without this minus two we would end up getting errors
here and I plus 1 and I plus 2 because we would get to the end of the list and keep asking for more.
I would eventually be the end of the list and you would say plus 1 or plus 2 to avoid any errors.
We will say length of Nom's minus 2.
So that way when we do the very last check this I plus 2 and I plus 1 aren't outside of the list and
the notice here how I'm saying for this range check if the sequence happens to be true somewhere.
If it is return true if I've done this entire for a loop and it hasn't returned true then a line is
this for a loop.
I'll just return false.
Really Make sure you check your indentation here.
All right so we get.
True true and false there.
So we get the right results.
Task number six is given two streets create a function that returns a difference in length between them
and hence was absolute value which means hopefully you're able to google how to get an absolute value
with Python and you're able to figure out that it was abs for absolute value.
So all we're doing is we're taking the length of string one.
Make sure you spell that right.
The length of string 1 minus the length of string to
and we're returning this.
But if we were only to do this then we would get some wrong results so we would get negative 1 here
in order to get just the absolute difference.
We passed this result into abs for absolute value.
Run that and then you'll end up getting the correct results.
Now on to task 7 for this next task we were given a list of integers and if the length of the list is
an even number return the sum of the list is the length of the list is odd returned the max value in
that list.
So first off let's create a little quick variable here called length and we'll just set that to the
length of my list and then we'll do the following.
We'll say if the length mod to is equal to zero then we have an even value and rule will turn the sum
of my list else.
We will go ahead and return the max value of my list so we can run that and then we'll see the results
here 3 and 6.
Your final task was to perform this replace and switch function.
Now there's lots of different ways you could have done this.
Let's go over one example solution to start off our example solution we're going to do the same thing
we did last time.
We'll start off with output being some sort of a list here.
And then at the very end we were going to return that output.
And likely since it's going to be a list and we want to return a string we're going to say join the
output.
So this follows along with the logic from some of the previous lessons where we did a very similar example.
However in this case we don't know how long the name is going to be.
So what we will do here is say List Range length of name.
So what does it actually do.
Well since we don't know how long the name may be as far as how many characters it has if we say length
of something like John will return three if we say something of length sandy will return five.
If we pass this into range then we get back and a range operator which defaults to 0 and then goes up
to the length.
And if we pass that into list now I have a list that has as many indexed positions as there are letters
in this name.
So that's why we're doing this list range length of the name in order to get a list that has as many
inputs as the actual name itself.
The other way you could have done this is to just say list of Sandy and then you would have had the
same result.
So either way is totally fine if it makes more sense to use it numerical so you can kind of go along
that this was the way to do it.
If it makes more sense just to cast or transform the string into a list using just a simple list call
you could do it that way as well.
As I mentioned there's going to be multiple ways to do this problem.
So let's go ahead and just say output is list name and then we will say for I letter a little bit of
tuple and packing here in enumerates our name will say if the lower case version of the letter is in
a list the vowels recreate.
So I'll say a e i o u and we'll go ahead and ignore sometimes people consider Y a vowel and some cases.
Just stick with these five we'll say output of I and we'll reassign it to be X Bell's output of I isn't
going to change.
So we'll just have it be the letter in the name.
And now we need to switch the first and last letter.
So we'll take a variable called last and set that to be the very last item in the output.
So another variable called first and that will be the very first item.
In the output.
And then finally we'll do the re-assignment will see output of 0 as equal to last an output of negative
1 is equal to first.
And then finally we'll join together the output.
So let's say you could solve this problem you create a list iterate through the name.
Do your reassignments concerning the vowels.
If not it stays the same.
And if you do it this way you don't need to actually do this sort of re-assignment.
However she did it this way you do.
You do need to do that re-assignment if you only have numbers there if you have the actual letters from
the beginning you don't technically need to do anything there.
So let's run this cell and see your results.
So we'll say replace switch which James we get the same results Sindhi same result Alford same results.
OK.
So hopefully now you've learned how you can combine functions with other topics such as for loops while
loops and control flow in order to get functions that have the capability to solve what seems to be
a real generalized problems.
Great work so far.
Keep in mind this is a big jump in difficulty and it's just the nature of learning something as powerful
as functions.
So if you are still having trouble with this you can check out some of the resources for extra help.
We'll see you at the next lesson.